IT7742 Lab 7 - Model View Controller

The supplied file is named IT7742 Lab6.docx, but its heading says Lab 7.

Exercise 1
NonMVC_Calculator has two text boxes, an Add button and a result label.
The button event reads the inputs, adds the numbers and displays the answer.
All of this is in CalculatorForm.cs.

Exercise 2
Code coupling: Input handling, calculation and output are in the same form.
Changing the UI can mean changing the same code that does the calculation.
Lack of reusability: Another screen cannot easily reuse the addition code
because it is inside the button event.
Maintenance: This is manageable with one button, but adding more calculations
and validation would make the form longer and harder to follow.

Exercises 3 and 4
MVC_Calculator separates the work into three classes.
CalculatorModel contains the calculations.
CalculatorForm displays the controls and passes button clicks to the controller.
CalculatorController reads the form inputs, checks them, calls the model and
updates the result label. The form has no arithmetic in it.

For example, clicking Add calls controller.Calculate("Add"). The controller
reads Number1 and Number2, calls model.Add, then uses view.ShowResult.

Activity 5
Subtract, Multiply and Divide use the same arrangement as Add.
Inputs are whole numbers. Division can give a decimal answer, so 7 / 2 is 3.5.
Invalid inputs, division by zero and integer overflow show a message in the
result label.

Activity 6
Separation of concerns makes it easier to see where each piece of code belongs.
A calculation change goes in the model. A layout change goes in the form.
This makes maintenance easier and gives a clearer way to add more operations.
The model can also be reused without the form.

The main refactoring issue is deciding where input checking should go.
It belongs in the controller here, so the form stays focused on the controls.
Another issue is integer division. Casting to double in Divide keeps the
fractional part of the answer. MVC needs more files, which is extra work for
a small calculator, but the responsibilities are clearer.

Running the work
Open Calculators.sln in Visual Studio with .NET desktop development and
the .NET Framework 4.8 targeting pack. Set either project as the startup project.
The controls are created in C# rather than a separate Designer file.
You can also run the prebuilt EXE in each project's bin\Debug folder.
To rebuild using Windows' framework compiler:
powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .\build.ps1

Test results are in TestResults.txt.
